---
layout: post
title: Publication and Poster at HCLLM at ACL2024
date: 2024-08-15 23:59:59
description: Our paper, where we investigate to what extent we can use generative large language models in motivational interviewing chatbots to generate precise and variable reflections, is accepted to be published in the proceedings of the Human-Centered Large Language Modelling Workshop within ACL2024.
tags: proceedings poster conference
categories: publication presentation
thumbnail: assets/img/posts/2024-08-15/thumbnail.jpg
tabs: true
featured: false
---

Our paper, where we investigate to what extent we can use generative large language models in motivational interviewing chatbots to generate precise and variable reflections, is accepted to be published in the proceedings of the [Human-Centered Large Language Modelling Workshop](https://hucllm-workshop.github.io/) within the [62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics](https://2024.aclweb.org). The publication also gained a spot in the workshop for a poster presentation, which is going to take place on August 15, 2024, in Bangkok, Thailand.

Read the paper at [https://aclanthology.org/2024.hucllm-1.4.pdf](https://aclanthology.org/2024.hucllm-1.4.pdf)

#### Title

To What Extent Are Large Language Models Capable of Generating Substantial Reflections for Motivational Interviewing Counseling Chatbots? A Human Evaluation

#### Abstract

Motivational Interviewing is a counselling style that requires skillful usage of reflective listening and engaging in conversations about sensitive and personal subjects. In this paper, we investigate to what extent we can use generative large language models in motivational interviewing chatbots to generate precise and variable reflections on user responses. We conduct a two-step human evaluation where we first independently assess the generated reflections based on four criteria essential to health counseling; appropriateness, specificity, naturalness, and engagement. In the second step, we compare the overall quality of generated and human-authored reflections via a ranking evaluation. We use GPT-4, BLOOM, and FLAN-T5 models to generate motivational interviewing reflections, based on real conversational data collected via chatbots designed to provide support for smoking cessation and sexual health. We discover that GPT-4 can produce reflections of a quality comparable to human-authored reflections. Finally, we conclude that large language models have the potential to enhance and expand reflections in predetermined health counseling chatbots, but a comprehensive manual review is advised.

#### Reference

{% tabs reference %}

{% tab reference APA %}

Basar, E., Hendrickx, I., Krahmer, E., de Bruijn, G., & Bosse, T. (2024). [To What Extent Are Large Language Models Capable of Generating Substantial Reflections for Motivational Interviewing Counseling Chatbots? A Human Evaluation.](https://aclanthology.org/2024.hucllm-1.4) In <i>Proceedings of the 1st Human-Centered Large Language Modeling Workshop</i>, pages 41-52. Association for Computational Linguistics.

{% endtab %}

{% tab reference BibTeX %}

```bibtex
@inproceedings{basar2024extent,
  author = {Basar, Erkan and Hendrickx, Iris and Krahmer, Emiel and {de Bruijn}, Gert{-}Jan and Bosse, Tibor},
  title = {To What Extent Are Large Language Models Capable of Generating Substantial Reflections for Motivational Interviewing Counseling Chatbots? A Human Evaluation},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 1st Human-Centered Large Language Modeling Workshop},
  year = {2024},
  publisher = {Association for Computational Linguistics},
  pages = {41--52},
  doi = {10.18653/v1/2024.hucllm-1.4}
}
```

{% endtab %}

{% endtabs %}


#### Images

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/posts/2024-08-15/1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/posts/2024-08-15/2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
        <i>The poster presented.</i>
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0"></div>
</div>

---

Find and like this news on [<i class="fa-brands fa-linkedin"></i> LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-7228710764792954880-8-sY){:target="_blank"}
